[Function-Valued Traits in Evolution](http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3730)
=====================================================================

Analysis and demonstration scripts (R)
======================================

###Pantelis Z. Hadjipantelis, Nick S. Jones, John Moriarty, David A. Springate, Christopher G. Knight (Submitted on 15 Dec 2012)

####Subjects: 
* Methodology (stat.ME)
* Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)
* Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM)

####Cite as: [arXiv:1212.3730](http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.3730) [stat.ME]

####Abstract:
> Many biological characteristics of evolutionary interest are not scalar variables but continuous functions. Given a dataset of function-valued traits generated by evolution, we develop a practical statistical approach to infer ancestral function-valued traits, and estimate the generative evolutionary process. We do this by combining dimension reduction and phylogenetic Gaussian process regression, a nonparametric procedure which explicitly accounts for known phylogenetic relationships. We test the methods’ performance on simulated function-valued data generated from a stochastic evolutionary model. The methods are applied assuming that only the phylogeny and the function-valued traits of taxa at its tips are known. Our method is robust and applicable to a wide range of function-valued data, and also offers a phylogenetically aware method for estimating the autocorrelation of function-valued traits.

The "MAIN_FUNCTION_SHOWCASE.R" script will recreate the plots in the paper.

All other *_SHOWCASE.* files need to be in the same folder as the main function script.

Required R-packages: 
* `inline`
* `RcppEigen`
* `caTools`
* `minqa`
* `ape`
